\input texinfo
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2012 LAAS/CNRS
@c All rights reserved.
@c
@c Permission to use, copy, modify,  and distribute this software for any
@c purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
@c copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
@c
@c THE  SOFTWARE  IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS" AND  THE  AUTHOR  DISCLAIMS  ALL
@c WARRANTIES  WITH  REGARD  TO   THIS  SOFTWARE  INCLUDING  ALL  IMPLIED
@c WARRANTIES  OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND  FITNESS. IN  NO  EVENT SHALL  THE
@c AUTHOR BE  LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,  INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
@c DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER  RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
@c PROFITS,  WHETHER  IN  AN  ACTION  OF CONTRACT,  NEGLIGENCE  OR  OTHER
@c TORTIOUS  ACTION, ARISING  OUT OF  OR IN  CONNECTION WITH  THE  USE OR
@c PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
@c
@c                                      Anthony Mallet on Mon May 13 2012
@c
@c %**start of header
@setfilename genom3.info
@settitle GenoM Manual
@afourpaper
@c %**end of header
@include sty/genom.texi
@include meta.texi

@copying
@quotation
@genom{3} is copyright @copyright{} 2009-@value{YEAR} LAAS/CNRS.
All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
@end quotation
@
@
@quotation
@code{genom-pcpp} is copyright @copyright{} 2004,2010 Anders Magnusson
(@email{ragge@@ludd.luth.se}).
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
@enumerate
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
@end enumerate

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Openrobots documentation
@direntry
* genom3: (genom3).             The GenoM3 generator of components
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title @genom{} Manual
@subtitle For @genom{} version 3
@subtitle Revision @value{VERSION}, updated @value{MONTH} @value{YEAR}
@author Sara Fleury
@author Matthieu Herrb @email{matthieu.herrb@@laas.fr}
@author Anthony Mallet @email{anthony.mallet@@laas.fr}
@author Cédric Pasteur

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@contents
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @genom{} manual

@flushright
For @genom{@r{ version 3}}
Revision @value{VERSION}, updated @value{MONTH} @value{YEAR}
@end flushright

@ifnotinfo
@majorheading Summary
@end ifnotinfo

@menu
* Copying::		@htmd Your rights.
* Introduction::	@htmd ...
* Component model::	@htmd ...
* GenoM overview::	@htmd ...
* A minimal example::	@htmd ...
* Input file format::	@htmd ...
* GenoM IDL mappings::	@htmd ...
* Running genom::	@htmd ...
* Templates::		@htmd ...
* Indices::		@htmd Indices of concepts and functions.
@end menu

@contents

@node Copying
@unnumbered Copying
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@node Component model
@chapter Component model

@node GenoM overview
@chapter @genom{} overview

@node A minimal example
@chapter A minimal example

@node Input file format
@chapter Input file format
@include texi/dotgen-grammar.texi

@node GenoM IDL mappings
@chapter @genom{} IDL mappings
@include texi/mappings.texi

@node Running genom
@chapter Running genom
@include texi/running.texi

@node Templates
@chapter Templates
@include texi/templates.texi

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices

@menu
* Concept Index::		@htmd Index of concepts
* TCL Backend Index::		@htmd Index of TCL backend procedures
@end menu

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of concepts
@printindex cp

@node TCL Backend Index
@unnumberedsec Index of TCL backend procedures
@printindex fn

@bye
